---
layout: post
title: OWASP Top 10 - 2007
tags: [security basics, vulnerabilities, owasp]
---
When developing a security strategy for web applications many companies have no idea where to begin. The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) realized this problem early on. To solve the problem they identified the most common web application vulnerabilities called the OWASP Top 10.

Different people in the organization can benefit from an understanding of the OWASP Top 10.
* _Developers:_ The first level of defense for web applications. You should understand the Top 10 thoroughly. Understanding the top 10 is critical into introducing less vulnerabilities into your code.

* _Architects:_ When constructing the overall infrastructure and design it is important to keep these in mind. Spacifically [Information Leakage and Improper Error Handling](/2009/08/information-leakage-and-improper-error-handling/), [Broken Authentication and Session Management](/2009/08/broken-authentication-and-session-management/), [Insecure Cryptographic Storage](/2009/09/insecure-cryptographic-storage/), and [Insecure Communications](/2009/10/insecure-communications/)

## Presentation
If you want a quick primer, feel free to watch this [presentation](/2009/10/owasp-2007-top-10-presentation/).

## The OWASP Top 10

* A1 - [Cross Site Scripting (XSS)](/2009/05/xss-cross-site-scripting/)
* A2 - [Injection Flaws](/2009/07/injection-flaws/)
* A3 - [Malicious File Execution](/2009/07/malicious-file-execution/)
* A4 - [Insecure Direct Object Reference](/2009/07/insecure-direct-object-reference/)
* A5 - [Cross Site Request Forgery (CSRF)](/2009/08/cross-site-request-forgery-csrf/)
* A6 - [Information Leakage and Improper Error Handling](/2009/08/information-leakage-and-improper-error-handling/)
* A7 - [Broken Authentication and Session Management](/2009/08/broken-authentication-and-session-management/)
* A8 - [Insecure Cryptographic Storage](/2009/09/insecure-cryptographic-storage/)
* A9 - [Insecure Communications](/2009/10/insecure-communications/)
* A10 - [Failure to Restrict URL Access](/2009/11/restricting-url-access/)